

LAYER ORDER GUIDES

These are here to help you place the equipment on the correct layer.
Sometimes the sword or shield needs to be in front of the character sprite, sometimes they need to be behind it.
If you see a "++" that means you need to make sure it goes in front of the OTHER piece of equipment, "--" means it goes behind it.
For example, a sword with "behind ++" and a shield with "behind --" means they both go behind the player sprite, but the sword goes in front of the shield.


ANIMATION GUIDES

These are here to help you understand where all the animations begin and end.
All animations right left to right, in four directions.
You'll have to figure out some timings that work well for you, but I think the attacks look good at 160ms/65ms/65ms/200ms.
Feel free to mix and match frames and move the effects or weapons around to make your own special attack animations.

-------------------------------------------

I've designed these animations with a Seiken Densetsu 3 (Trials of Mana) combat style in mind. Here's how that works:
	When enemies are present, the characters draw weapons automatically.
	While in this combat mode, movement is restricted to a relatively slow shuffle (no running or jumping with weapon drawn).
	Attacks automatically target the nearest enemy.
	When enemies are defeated, the characters auto sheath their weapons and can resume normal movement.
	If you want to have your characters run or jump with their weapon drawn, you'll need to add the optional spear sprite layers to page 1 of the base.


This asset contains 2 layers (0bas, 6tla) on 3 new pages (pONE1, pONE2, and pONE3).
Layer 6tla contains the one-handed weapon sprites with proper placement.
Layer 7tlb contains the shield sprites with proper placement.
The both weapon and shield sprites will need to move in front of or behind the player sprite depending on facing/animation.
You will also need to ensure the weapon and shield are in front of or behind one another, depending on the animation (see "LAYER ORDER GUIDES" above).
Most of it should be obvious, but I've included some reference images to help.


One-hand page 1 (pONE1) contains the following animations:

	Draw/sheath weapon & shield. The first 3 columns in the top half of the page.
	You should transition this animation directly into the combat idle.
	Run this animation in reverse to stow your weapon.

	Parry. Column 4, top half.
	The character holds the weapon up to deflect an attack while in combat idle.
	Best if you pair it with some kind of flash or spark effect (not included).

	Evade. Column 5, top half.
	Used for dodging attacks while in combat idle.

	Get hit. Column 6, top half.
	Used for getting hit while in combat idle.

	Knockdown. Columns 6 through 8, top half.
	Repeat 6 and 7 a couple times for a little bounce. 

	// The bottom half is intentionally left blank at this point. I may add something there in a future update.


One-hand page 2 (pONE2) contains the following animations:

	Combat idle. Columns 1 through 4, top half.
	This is a loop. I like 200ms on each frame.

	Combat move. Columns 5 through 6, top half.
	This is a shuffling combat-ready walk cycle. I like 140ms, 140ms, 200ms, 240ms.

	Retreat/evade. Columns 1 and 2, bottom half.
	Hold column 1 for a beat, then use column 2 to leap backwards, then play column 1 again before returning to idle.
	This is like a jump back or dodge animation.

	Lunge/dash. Columns 1 and 3, bottom half.
	Just like the retreat above, but use column 3 and make the character leap forward.
	Both of these dashes can be used in conjunction with the slash or thrust attack animations for cool special skill attacks.
 
	// The rest of page 2 is intentionally left blank at this point. I may add something there in a future update.

One-hand page 2 (pONE3) contains the following animations:
	
	Attack, slash 1. Columns 1 through 4, top half.

	Attack, slash 2. Columns 5 through 8, top half.

	Attack, thrust. Columns 1 through 4, bottom half.

	Attack, shield bash. Columns 5 through 8, bottom half.
	Column 5 all by itself can be used as a block frame.

	// Experiment and find timings that work for your gameplay.
	// You can also mix and match different frames for special attacks.


